README.md, before:

# DiffSinger (OpenVPI maintained version)

[![arXiv](https://img.shields.io/badge/arXiv-Paper-<COLOR>.svg)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2105.02446)
[![downloads](https://img.shields.io/github/downloads/openvpi/DiffSinger/total.svg)](https://github.com/openvpi/DiffSinger/releases)
[![Bilibili](https://img.shields.io/badge/Bilibili-Demo-blue)](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1be411N7JA/)
[![license](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](https://github.com/openvpi/DiffSinger/blob/main/LICENSE)

This is a refactored and enhanced version of _DiffSinger: Singing Voice Synthesis via Shallow Diffusion Mechanism_ based on the original [paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2105.02446) and [implementation](https://github.com/MoonInTheRiver/DiffSinger), which provides:

- Cleaner code structure: useless and redundant files are removed and the others are re-organized.
- Better sound quality: the sampling rate of synthesized audio are adapted to 44.1 kHz instead of the original 24 kHz.
- Higher fidelity: improved acoustic models and diffusion sampling acceleration algorithms are integrated.
- More controllability: introduced variance models and parameters for prediction and control of pitch, energy, breathiness, etc.
- Production compatibility: functionalities are designed to match the requirements of production deployment and the SVS communities.

|                                       Overview                                        |                                    Variance Model                                     |                                    Acoustic Model                                     |
|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|
| <img src="docs/resources/arch-overview.jpg" alt="arch-overview" style="zoom: 60%;" /> | <img src="docs/resources/arch-variance.jpg" alt="arch-variance" style="zoom: 50%;" /> | <img src="docs/resources/arch-acoustic.jpg" alt="arch-acoustic" style="zoom: 60%;" /> |

## User Guidance

> 中文教程 / Chinese Tutorials: [Text](https://openvpi-docs.feishu.cn/wiki/KmBFwoYDEixrS4kHcTAcajPinPe), [Video](https://space.bilibili.com/179281251/channel/collectiondetail?sid=1747910)

- **Installation & basic usages**: See [Getting Started](docs/GettingStarted.md)
- **Dataset creation pipelines & tools**: See [MakeDiffSinger](https://github.com/openvpi/MakeDiffSinger)
- **Best practices & tutorials**: See [Best Practices](docs/BestPractices.md)
- **Editing configurations**: See [Configuration Schemas](docs/ConfigurationSchemas.md)
- **Deployment & production**: [OpenUTAU for DiffSinger](https://github.com/xunmengshe/OpenUtau), [DiffScope (under development)](https://github.com/openvpi/diffscope)
- **Communication groups**: [QQ Group](http://qm.qq.com/cgi-bin/qm/qr?_wv=1027&k=fibG_dxuPW5maUJwe9_ya5-zFcIwaoOR&authKey=ZgLCG5EqQVUGCID1nfKei8tCnlQHAmD9koxebFXv5WfUchhLwWxb52o1pimNai5A&noverify=0&group_code=907879266) (907879266), [Discord server](https://discord.gg/wwbu2JUMjj)

## Progress & Roadmap

- **Progress since we forked into this repository**: See [Releases](https://github.com/openvpi/DiffSinger/releases)
- **Roadmap for future releases**: See [Project Board](https://github.com/orgs/openvpi/projects/1)
- **Thoughts, proposals & ideas**: See [Discussions](https://github.com/openvpi/DiffSinger/discussions)

## Architecture & Algorithms

TBD

## Development Resources

TBD

## References

### Original Paper & Implementation

- Paper: [DiffSinger: Singing Voice Synthesis via Shallow Diffusion Mechanism](https://arxiv.org/abs/2105.02446)
- Implementation: [MoonInTheRiver/DiffSinger](https://github.com/MoonInTheRiver/DiffSinger)

### Generative Models & Algorithms

- Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Models (DDPM): [paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2006.11239), [implementation](https://github.com/hojonathanho/diffusion)
  - [DDIM](https://arxiv.org/abs/2010.02502) for diffusion sampling acceleration
  - [PNDM](https://arxiv.org/abs/2202.09778) for diffusion sampling acceleration
  - [DPM-Solver++](https://github.com/LuChengTHU/dpm-solver) for diffusion sampling acceleration
  - [UniPC](https://github.com/wl-zhao/UniPC) for diffusion sampling acceleration
- Rectified Flow (RF): [paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2209.03003), [implementation](https://github.com/gnobitab/RectifiedFlow)

### Dependencies & Submodules

- [HiFi-GAN](https://github.com/jik876/hifi-gan) and [NSF](https://github.com/nii-yamagishilab/project-NN-Pytorch-scripts/tree/master/project/01-nsf) for waveform reconstruction
- [pc-ddsp](https://github.com/yxlllc/pc-ddsp) for waveform reconstruction
- [RMVPE](https://github.com/Dream-High/RMVPE) and yxlllc's [fork](https://github.com/yxlllc/RMVPE) for pitch extraction

## Disclaimer

Any organization or individual is prohibited from using any functionalities included in this repository to generate someone's speech without his/her consent, including but not limited to government leaders, political figures, and celebrities. If you do not comply with this item, you could be in violation of copyright laws.

## License

This forked DiffSinger repository is licensed under the [Apache 2.0 License](LICENSE).

Commit message:

Add important notice on experimental branches

README.md, after:

# DiffSinger (OpenVPI maintained version)

[![arXiv](https://img.shields.io/badge/arXiv-Paper-<COLOR>.svg)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2105.02446)
[![downloads](https://img.shields.io/github/downloads/openvpi/DiffSinger/total.svg)](https://github.com/openvpi/DiffSinger/releases)
[![Bilibili](https://img.shields.io/badge/Bilibili-Demo-blue)](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1be411N7JA/)
[![license](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](https://github.com/openvpi/DiffSinger/blob/main/LICENSE)

This is a refactored and enhanced version of _DiffSinger: Singing Voice Synthesis via Shallow Diffusion Mechanism_ based on the original [paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2105.02446) and [implementation](https://github.com/MoonInTheRiver/DiffSinger), which provides:

- Cleaner code structure: useless and redundant files are removed and the others are re-organized.
- Better sound quality: the sampling rate of synthesized audio are adapted to 44.1 kHz instead of the original 24 kHz.
- Higher fidelity: improved acoustic models and diffusion sampling acceleration algorithms are integrated.
- More controllability: introduced variance models and parameters for prediction and control of pitch, energy, breathiness, etc.
- Production compatibility: functionalities are designed to match the requirements of production deployment and the SVS communities.

|                                       Overview                                        |                                    Variance Model                                     |                                    Acoustic Model                                     |
|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|
| <img src="docs/resources/arch-overview.jpg" alt="arch-overview" style="zoom: 60%;" /> | <img src="docs/resources/arch-variance.jpg" alt="arch-variance" style="zoom: 50%;" /> | <img src="docs/resources/arch-acoustic.jpg" alt="arch-acoustic" style="zoom: 60%;" /> |

## User Guidance

> 中文教程 / Chinese Tutorials: [Text](https://openvpi-docs.feishu.cn/wiki/KmBFwoYDEixrS4kHcTAcajPinPe), [Video](https://space.bilibili.com/179281251/channel/collectiondetail?sid=1747910)

- **Installation & basic usages**: See [Getting Started](docs/GettingStarted.md)
- **Dataset creation pipelines & tools**: See [MakeDiffSinger](https://github.com/openvpi/MakeDiffSinger)
- **Best practices & tutorials**: See [Best Practices](docs/BestPractices.md)
- **Editing configurations**: See [Configuration Schemas](docs/ConfigurationSchemas.md)
- **Deployment & production**: [OpenUTAU for DiffSinger](https://github.com/xunmengshe/OpenUtau), [DiffScope (under development)](https://github.com/openvpi/diffscope)
- **Communication groups**: [QQ Group](http://qm.qq.com/cgi-bin/qm/qr?_wv=1027&k=fibG_dxuPW5maUJwe9_ya5-zFcIwaoOR&authKey=ZgLCG5EqQVUGCID1nfKei8tCnlQHAmD9koxebFXv5WfUchhLwWxb52o1pimNai5A&noverify=0&group_code=907879266) (907879266), [Discord server](https://discord.gg/wwbu2JUMjj)

## Progress & Roadmap

- **Progress since we forked into this repository**: See [Releases](https://github.com/openvpi/DiffSinger/releases)
- **Roadmap for future releases**: See [Project Board](https://github.com/orgs/openvpi/projects/1)
- **Thoughts, proposals & ideas**: See [Discussions](https://github.com/openvpi/DiffSinger/discussions)

## Important notice on experimental branches

ONNX exporting pipelines, OpenUtau support and other deployment-related components are **supported ONLY FOR MAIN BRANCH**. Without in-depth knowledge on how and why DiffSinger code works, you can easily make things break just like many other machine-learning projects. All experimental branches are only intended for feature development, only a limited feature set is tested, and are **never meant to be deployed as ONNX models**. This wasn't clearly stated before and has caused us debugging headaches multiple times in the past, in some cases users had:

  - distributed ONNX model that won't work in OpenUtau (possibly worked in their own modified revision) and led to mysterious bug report in OpenUtau repo (#xxxx)
  - exported ONNX model with Torch 2.2 (which is unsupported), had a success (which is broken, ONNX export has A LOT of quirks we had to iron out with our code) and distributed the model, led to mysterious bug report in OpenUtau repo (#xxxx)

### Please refrain from distributing model files generated by experimental branches, for the sake of developers' maintenance burden. This is NOT SUPPORTED.

## Architecture & Algorithms

TBD

## Development Resources

TBD

## References

### Original Paper & Implementation

- Paper: [DiffSinger: Singing Voice Synthesis via Shallow Diffusion Mechanism](https://arxiv.org/abs/2105.02446)
- Implementation: [MoonInTheRiver/DiffSinger](https://github.com/MoonInTheRiver/DiffSinger)

### Generative Models & Algorithms

- Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Models (DDPM): [paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2006.11239), [implementation](https://github.com/hojonathanho/diffusion)
  - [DDIM](https://arxiv.org/abs/2010.02502) for diffusion sampling acceleration
  - [PNDM](https://arxiv.org/abs/2202.09778) for diffusion sampling acceleration
  - [DPM-Solver++](https://github.com/LuChengTHU/dpm-solver) for diffusion sampling acceleration
  - [UniPC](https://github.com/wl-zhao/UniPC) for diffusion sampling acceleration
- Rectified Flow (RF): [paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2209.03003), [implementation](https://github.com/gnobitab/RectifiedFlow)

### Dependencies & Submodules

- [HiFi-GAN](https://github.com/jik876/hifi-gan) and [NSF](https://github.com/nii-yamagishilab/project-NN-Pytorch-scripts/tree/master/project/01-nsf) for waveform reconstruction
- [pc-ddsp](https://github.com/yxlllc/pc-ddsp) for waveform reconstruction
- [RMVPE](https://github.com/Dream-High/RMVPE) and yxlllc's [fork](https://github.com/yxlllc/RMVPE) for pitch extraction

## Disclaimer

Any organization or individual is prohibited from using any functionalities included in this repository to generate someone's speech without his/her consent, including but not limited to government leaders, political figures, and celebrities. If you do not comply with this item, you could be in violation of copyright laws.

## License

This forked DiffSinger repository is licensed under the [Apache 2.0 License](LICENSE).
